Hello welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be implementing a move within range functionality.
So if I click on our target we move within the specified range rover and the fighter of two meters away
of that target.
So we're two meters away from the center of the target.
And he stops.
That's the idea.
That's what we're going to implement in this letter.
Let's dive in and see how so at the end of the last lecture we left the player standing here at the
end of the world.
Now this is obviously not where we want him because we want to be able to play with our combat.
So I'm going to drag my player near the enemy and hook up the follow camera at some point we can do
something more automatic with that but for now I think that's good.
Let's go ahead and hit play and see where we're at.
Click on the enemy and nothing's happening oh by the way I'm scaled in here for some reason dunno why.
So I'm guy.
I can't.
It doesn't move towards the enemy.
That's the first thing that seems wrong to me.
I can't attack from this distance I should move towards the enemy when I click on him.
So let's try that out.
If I go over to my player controller.
No no.
I play controller the.
The Fighter The Fighter script.
Then I've got this attack that is currently happening here and what I would like it to do is actually
use this to move towards the target.
So we want to move in range but we also want to stop once we've got within range.
So that's going to mean we're going to need to have some concept of the thing we're targeting so we
can check whether we got within range and also the enemy might be moving around so we might need to
keep moving to a different location is no good doing basically a move to in this attack because we might
need to change that every frame.
So because the enemy is a moving target I'm going to create an update function and that's where we're
going to do our movement instead.
So I'm going to have a target private variable it's going to be a combat target.
Now in fact I'm going to just make it a transform because that way we can very easily get hold of the
position of location and it's going to be the target currently not set to anything which means that
we need to be able to set it and that we can do in attack.
So if we have been told to attack this target then we're going to do probably easier if I call it one
of them combat target I think so.
So combat target I'm going to take the transform of and store it there.
So now at any update in any frame the fighter knows whether it needs to attack or not because it has
a target basically.
So we can do an if statement here saying that the target is not no and if it's not now then we want
to move towards it basically.
So I'm going to get hold of they get components mover.
Now I don't have the mover in here because I'm not using the right namespace.
So if I do using RPG de movement it's going to give me access to the move a script like so and then
I can call move to and the place I want to move is to the target's position want to move in that direction.
Now if we go ahead and hit play now and where to click on the target we move directly to the target
and stop right in the middle of him which isn't really what we want to do.
We want to stop at a good range away from the target.
So what I'm going to do is add a serialized field that's going to be our range for now.
We're going to do things with weapon conflicts at some point but not just yet.
So it's going to be a float and we'll call this the weapon range like so and I'm just going to set about
two meters for now and this is going to be your challenge to see if you can stop him moving when he
gets within that range but first let me show you how we can stop and now mash agent because at the moment
and nav mesh agent if we head over into the movies the script is setting a destination and it's moving
no matter what.
It's never stopping.
So I'm going to create a public method void called stop and it's not going to have to take any arguments
and how can we stop and nav mesh agent.
Well what we're going to do in fact we're referencing this in quite a few places I'd like to make this
into something that we created on we get a reference to OnStar.
So it's gonna be a now mash agent private variable which is going to be the reference to the nav mesh
agents calling it what it is and then we'll have a start function which we're going to you get the component
with nav mesh agent equals the get component of mesh agent.
So which means that now that we're gonna use it in more places we don't have to keep getting the component
all the time which is just a bit easier for us to read.
So the nav mesh agent now and stop.
How do we stop and nav mesh.
Agent you could take a guess if you like and that pulls a video see what you can do here and you may
or may not have found it but the property is called is stopped and you can actually as well as referencing
this property as well as reading from it.
You can set it so I can say is stopped equals true.
Now obviously this needs a counterpart because we need to be able to restart this.
So maybe when we call move to we are going to start it.
So it's going to be is stopped equals true unless I have said move too in which case where it's going
to start moving.
So I think that's pretty clear so why don't we take it on as a challenge to stop within range check
how far we are from the target.
And if that is less than the range then stop you might need to do a little bit of searching around for
seeing how we can find the distance between two vectors you might do a little Google search and you
might find some useful snippets there and be able to understand them.
So I do encourage you to do a little bit of your own your own looking up that post video and have a
go.
OK so we're going to dive in and I over in my fighter the first thing I want to do is check whether
basically we are in range.
So we're gonna need a boolean is in range like so.
And what are we going to do.
Well we're going to find the distance between the target position and our current position.
So it's going to be vector three dot distance.
It's a handy little function that we can use to get the distance between two vectors.
So I can do a transform dot position which is my own position and I can do the target dot position and
we can check that that is less than the weapon range.
Then we are in range like so.
So we're now in range and we can use that in this if statement.
So we're going to say if the target is not null and it is in range then we're going to move too.
Otherwise if we have no target and we're not in range in fact it's not going to work.
Well we'll see and we'll sort it out if it doesn't it.
Else then we are going to try and stop the mover.
So again we've used this move at twice now we might want to think about extracting it sorry saving it
in a in a start but I'm not going to do that in this lecture moved to and again stop if we either don't
have a target or it is not in range so let's go and have a look hit play and click on the target and
must be in range.
Doesn't quite seem to be working that will be because I've got this the wrong way round.
What we want to say is if it is not in range then moved to otherwise stop obviously.
So let's try that again and clicking the target they go moves within range and stops two meters away
and we can just make ourselves happy about that.
If we go to our player you see at the moment there's a bizarre behavior where he kind of always tries
to run back to that target because we never unset it.
We're going to worry about that later.
But if I change the weapon range to five.
Then I come to mind by holding down come away.
Then he stops for a further away depending on what that value is in the script.
So hopefully you're happy that he is now moving within range as we set out to do.
And I'll see you in the next section where we'll try and refine some of that behavior such as why we
can't move away from the target.
Once we've set it see that.